readme.md, before:

# Dataset for crosswalk segmentation in QGIS

## Dependencies for training

The following dependencies are required to train the model:
- install PyTorch (https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) - check the proper version for your system,
- install requirements from `requirements.txt` file:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Data

The data are aerial images from the [Poznan 2022 aerial orthophoto high resolution](https://qms.nextgis.com/geoservices/5693/) map available in QGIS.
The images were created with the [Deepness plugin](https://plugins.qgis.org/plugins/deepness/), with the following parameters:
- `Resolution [cm/px]`: 10.00
- `Tile size [px]`: 512
- `Batch size`: 1
- `Tile overlap [%]`: 10

The images come from the following locations:
- 
- 349 - 449 - Plewiska and Komorniki,
- 450 - 497 - Skórzewo,
- 498 - 520 - Ławica and Junikowo,
- 521 - 595 - Sołacz, Winiary, and South-Western Podolany ,
- 596 - 795 - Grunwald, Górczyn, Łazarz (from [https://universe.roboflow.com/zpo/pedestrian_bicycle_crossings](https://universe.roboflow.com/zpo/pedestrian_bicycle_crossings)),
- 796 - 842 - Sejny (North-Eastern Poland) - from Geoportal Polska Orthophoto Poland,
- 843 - 945 - Żegrze (from [https://universe.roboflow.com/obraz/obrazy](https://universe.roboflow.com/obraz/obrazy)),
- 946 - 1057 - Wilda and Dębiec (from [https://universe.roboflow.com/obrazy-tisrw/obrazy-kublo](https://universe.roboflow.com/obrazy-tisrw/obrazy-kublo)).

## Trening model UNet (SMP)
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=smp_unet 
```
## UNet++ (EfficientNet-B0):
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=unet_effb0 
```
## UNet++ (ResNet-34)

```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=unet_resnet34
```
## UNet++ (MobileNetV2)
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=unet_mobilenetv2 
```
## DeepLabV3 (ResNet-34):
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=deeplabv3_resnet34 
```
## Evaluation model 
```bash
python scripts/run_evaluation.py --model=unet_effb0 --checkpoint=checkpoints/<checkpoint_folder>/best-checkpoint.ckpt --format=ckpt --num_samples=5
```

## Visualization predictions results

![Results](predict_result/Figure_1.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_2.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_5.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_8.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_9.png)

## Visualization metrics results
![Results](predict_result/Result_metrics.png)

Commit message:

Added images from Winogrady and Szeląg

readme.md, after:

# Dataset for crosswalk segmentation in QGIS

## Dependencies for training

The following dependencies are required to train the model:
- install PyTorch (https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) - check the proper version for your system,
- install requirements from `requirements.txt` file:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Data

The data are aerial images from the [Poznan 2022 aerial orthophoto high resolution](https://qms.nextgis.com/geoservices/5693/) map available in QGIS.
The images were created with the [Deepness plugin](https://plugins.qgis.org/plugins/deepness/), with the following parameters:
- `Resolution [cm/px]`: 10.00
- `Tile size [px]`: 512
- `Batch size`: 1
- `Tile overlap [%]`: 10

The images come from the following locations:
- 0 - 348 - PUT Campus and surrounding areas,
- 349 - 449 - Plewiska and Komorniki,
- 450 - 497 - Skórzewo,
- 498 - 520 - Ławica and Junikowo,
- 521 - 595 - Sołacz, Winiary, and South-Western Podolany ,
- 596 - 795 - Grunwald, Górczyn, Łazarz (from [https://universe.roboflow.com/zpo/pedestrian_bicycle_crossings](https://universe.roboflow.com/zpo/pedestrian_bicycle_crossings))*,
- 796 - 842 - Sejny (North-Eastern Poland) - from Geoportal Polska Orthophoto Poland,
- 843 - 945 - Żegrze (from [https://universe.roboflow.com/obraz/obrazy](https://universe.roboflow.com/obraz/obrazy))*,
- 946 - 1057 - Wilda and Dębiec (from [https://universe.roboflow.com/obrazy-tisrw/obrazy-kublo](https://universe.roboflow.com/obrazy-tisrw/obrazy-kublo))*,
- 1058 - 1385 - Winogrady and Szeląg (from [https://universe.roboflow.com/zpo/pedestrian_bicycle_crossings](https://universe.roboflow.com/zpo/pedestrian_bicycle_crossings))*.

\* Images from the Roboflow platform were adjust to be in the same format as the images from CVAT. Additionally, they were checked for mistakes in the annotations, and if necessary, they were corrected.

## Trening model UNet (SMP)
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=smp_unet 
```
## UNet++ (EfficientNet-B0):
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=unet_effb0 
```
## UNet++ (ResNet-34)

```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=unet_resnet34
```
## UNet++ (MobileNetV2)
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=unet_mobilenetv2 
```
## DeepLabV3 (ResNet-34):
```bash
python scripts/run_training.py --model=deeplabv3_resnet34 
```
## Evaluation model 
```bash
python scripts/run_evaluation.py --model=unet_effb0 --checkpoint=checkpoints/<checkpoint_folder>/best-checkpoint.ckpt --format=ckpt --num_samples=5
```

## Visualization predictions results

![Results](predict_result/Figure_1.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_2.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_5.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_8.png)
![Results](predict_result/Figure_9.png)

## Visualization metrics results
![Results](predict_result/Result_metrics.png)
